26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: CISC7204 Project Proposal Ideation | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm CISC7204 Project Proposal Ideation CISC7204 Project Proposal Ideation Completion requirements Preliminary Project Proposal - Ideation The best way to learn about data science is to work on a project you are interested in. Is there a question like, “Do first babies arrive late,” that you want to investigate? Think about questions you find personally interesting, or items of conventional wisdom, or controversial topics, or questions that have political consequences, and see if you can formulate a question that lends itself to statistical inquiry. Look for data to help you address the question. Governments are good sources because data from public research is often freely available. Good places to start include http://www.data.gov/ , and http://www.science.gov/ , and in the United Kingdom, http://data.gov.uk/ . Two of the favorite data sets are the General Social Survey at http://www3.norc.org/gss+website/ , and the European Social Survey at http://www.europeansocialsurvey.org/ . If it seems like someone has already answered your question, look closely to see whether the answer is justified. There might be flaws in the data or the analysis that make the conclusion unreliable. In that case you could perform a different analysis of the same data, or look for a better source of data. If you find a published paper that addresses your question, you should be able to get the raw data. Many authors make their data available on the web, but for sensitive data you might have to write to the authors, provide information about how you plan to use the data, or agree to certain terms of use. Be persistent! Requirements You must state the region and the domain category that your data sets are about (e.g., Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States and sports or athletics). You must state a question about the domain category and region that you identified as being interesting. You must provide at least two links to available datasets. These could be links to files such as CSV or Excel files, or links to websites which might have data in tabular form, such as Wikipedia pages. OPTIONAL: You may upload an image which addresses the research question you stated. You must contribute a short (1-2 paragraph) written justification of how your visualization addresses your stated research question. OPTIONAL: You may provide the Jupyter Notebook file (.ipynb) with Python 3 coding to verify your work (visual produced) with the related datasets. Your must provide the essential information of your proposal based on the project guideline indicated . You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all