26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: Module 05 - Lesson Summary: Model Evaluation and Refinement | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm Module 05 - Lesson Summary: Model Evaluation and Refinement Module 05 - Lesson Summary: Model Evaluation and Refinement Completion requirements Lesson Summary Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: How to split your data using the train_test_split() method into training and test sets. You use the training set to train a model, discover possible predictive relationships, and then use the test set to test your model to evaluate its performance. How to use the generalization error to measure how well your data does at predicting previously unseen data. How to use cross-validation by splitting the data into folds where you use some of the folds as a training set, which we use to train the model, and the remaining parts are used as a test set, which we use to test the model. You iterate through the folds until you use each partition for training and testing. At the end, you average results as the estimate of out-of-sample error. How to pick the best polynomial order and problems that arise when selecting the wrong order polynomial by analyzing models that underfit and overfit your data. Select the best order of a polynomial to fit your data by minimizing the test error using a graph comparing the mean square error to the order of the fitted polynomials. You should use ridge regression when there is a strong relationship among the independent variables. That ridge regression prevents overfitting. Ridge regression controls the magnitude of polynomial coefficients by introducing a hyperparameter, alpha. To determine alpha, you divide your data into training and validation data. Starting with a small value for alpha, you train the model, make a prediction using the validation data, then calculate the R-squared and store the values. You repeat the value for a larger value of alpha. You repeat the process for different alpha values, training the model, and making a prediction. You select the value of alpha that maximizes R-squared. That grid search allows you to scan through multiple hyperparameters using the Scikit-learn library, which iterates over these parameters using cross-validation. Based on the results of the grid search method, you select optimum hyperparameter values. The GridSearchCV() method takes in a dictionary as its argument where the key is the name of the hyperparameter, and the values are the hyperparameter values you wish to iterate over. You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all