26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: Module 06 - Practice Project Overview | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm Module 06 - Practice Project Overview Module 06 - Practice Project Overview Completion requirements Practice Project overview You have to perform data analytics on a medical insurance charges dataset. This is a filtered and modified version of the Medical Insurance Price Prediction dataset, available under the CC0 1.0 Universal License on the Kaggle website. Parameters The parameters used in the dataset are: 1. Age Age of the insured. Integer quantity. 2. Gender Gender of the insured. This parameter has been mapped to numerical values in the following way. Gender Assigned Value Female 1 Male 2 3. BMI Body Mass Index of the insured. Float value quantity. 4. No_of_Children Number of children the insured person has. Integer quantity. 5. Smoker Whether the insured person is a smoker or not. This parameter has been mapped to numerical values in the following way. Smoker Assigned Value Smoker 1 Non smoker 2 6. Region Which region of the USA does the insured belong to. This parameter has been mapped to numerical values in the following way. Region Assigned Value Northwest 1 Northeast 2 Southwest 3 Southeast 4 7. Charges Charges for the insurance in USD. Floating value quantity. Objectives In the next section, you will be playing with the Jupyter Notebook (.ipynb) " CISC7204 Assgn01 Module 06 - Practice Project - Data Analytics for Insurance Cost.ipynb " using the dataset " medical_insurance_dataset.csv " to accomplish the following: Load the insurance data as a pandas dataframe Clean the data, taking care of the blank entries Run exploratory data analysis and identify the attributes that most affect the charges Develop single variable and multi variable Linear Regression models for predicting the charges Use Ridge regression to refine the performance of Linear regression models. Show and Submit Your Work Show your work here: CISC7204 Personal Forum of Module 06 in Assignment 01 Submit your work here: CISC7204 Submission Link for Module 6 Practice Project in Assignment 01 - Due on 2026SEP20 11:00 pm Author(s) Abhishek Gagneja Vicky Kuo You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all