26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: Module 04 - Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) Plots for Model Evaluation | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm Module 04 - Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) Plots for Model Evaluation Module 04 - Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) Plots for Model Evaluation Completion requirements Introduction Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) plots are a valuable tool for visualizing data distributions by estimating their probability density function (PDF). These plots are particularly useful in regression analysis for comparing actual and predicted values. With the deprecation of Seaborn distplot , KDE plots serve as a modern and effective method for assessing model performance. Why Use KDE Plots? KDE plots are beneficial in model evaluation for the following reasons: They provide a smooth approximation of the data distribution. They help compare the true vs. predicted distributions effectively. Unlike histograms, KDE plots are not sensitive to bin sizes. They can highlight deviations between observed and predicted values. Implementing KDE Plots in Python We will use Seaborn kdeplot() function to implement a KDE plot , allowing us to compare the actual and predicted distributions effectively. It provides a smooth estimate of the data distribution, making it easier to visualize differences between observed and predicted values. Example: Evaluating a Regression Model The following code demonstrates how to train a simple linear regression model, generate predictions, and visualize the actual vs. predicted distributions using KDE plots. We will use synthetic data to simulate a linear relationship with added noise, then split the data into testing and training sets, and then we will evaluate the model predictions. import numpy as npy import pandas as pds import seaborn as sns import matplotlib.pyplot as plt from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression from sklearn.metrics import mean_absolute_error # Generating Sample Data npy.random.seed(42) x = npy.random.rand(100) * 10 y = 3 * x + npy.random.normal(0, 3, 100) # Linear relation with noise data = pds.DataFrame({'X': x, 'Y': y}) # Splitting Data X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(data[['X']], data['Y'], test_size=0.2, random_state=42) # Training a Model model = LinearRegression() model.fit(X_train, y_train) y_pred = model.predict(X_test) # Plotting KDE for Observed vs. Predicted Values plt.figure(figsize=(8, 5)) sns.kdeplot(y_test, label='Actual', fill=True, color='blue') sns.kdeplot(y_pred, label='Predicted', fill=True, color='red') plt.xlabel('Target Variable') plt.ylabel('Density') plt.title('KDE Plot of Actual vs. Predicted Values') plt.legend() plt.show() Output The resulted Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) plot compares the distribution of actual values (blue) and predicted values (red) from the linear regression model. Interpretation of the KDE Plot Overlap Between Distributions: The two curves have a significant overlap, indicating that the model has captured the general distribution of the actual target values reasonably well. However, the predicted values slightly deviate from the actual values in some regions. Peak Differences (Mode Shifts): The blue (actual) curve peaks slightly higher than the red curve, meaning that the actual values are more concentrated around certain values. The red (predicted ) curve has a second peak, suggesting that the model may be slightly misestimating certain ranges of the target variable. Spread of the Distributions: The actual values (blue) seem to have a wider spread, indicating more variation in real-world values. The predicted values (red) appear to be narrower, which suggests the model might be slightly underestimating variance (a sign of over-smoothing or bias). Tails of the Distributions: The tails of the predicted values closely follow the actual values, meaning the model does not generate extreme outliers beyond what was observed in the data. If there was a significant mismatch in the tails, it could indicate that the model struggles with extreme cases. Conclusion KDE plots are a powerful visualization tool for assessing the distribution of predicted values compared to actual values in regression analysis. Replacing deprecated distplot with kdeplot() ensures modern and effective visualization in model evaluation workflows. You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all