26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: Module 01 - Lesson Summary: Importing Data Sets | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm Module 01 - Lesson Summary: Importing Data Sets Module 01 - Lesson Summary: Importing Data Sets Completion requirements Lesson Summary Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know: Each line in a dataset is a row, and commas separate the values. To understand the data, you must analyze the attributes for each column of data. Python libraries are collections of functions and methods that facilitate various functionalities without writing code from scratch and are categorized into Scientific Computing, Data Visualization, and Machine Learning Algorithms. Many data science libraries are interconnected; for instance, Scikit-learn is built on top of NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib. The data format and the file path are two key factors for reading data with Pandas. The read_CSV method in Pandas can read files in CSV format into a Pandas DataFrame. Pandas has unique data types like object, float, Int, and datetime. Use the dtype method to check each column’s data type; misclassified data types might need manual correction. Knowing the correct data types helps apply appropriate Python functions to specific columns. Using Statistical Summary with describe() provides count, mean, standard deviation, min, max, and quartile ranges for numerical columns. You can also use include='all' as an argument to get summaries for object-type columns. The statistical summary helps identify potential issues like outliers needing further attention. Using the info() Method gives an overview of the top and bottom 30 rows of the DataFrame, useful for quick visual inspection. Some statistical metrics may return "NaN," indicating missing values, and the program can’t calculate statistics for that specific data type. Python can connect to databases through specialized code, often written in Jupyter notebooks. SQL Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Python DB APIs (most often used) facilitate the interaction between Python and the DBMS. SQL APIs connect to DBMS with one or more API calls, build SQL statements as a text string, and use API calls to send SQL statements to the DBMS and retrieve results and statuses. DB-API , Python's standard for interacting with relational databases, uses connection objects to establish and manage database connections and cursor objects to run queries and scroll through the results. Connection Object methods include the cursor(), commit(), rollback(), and close() commands. You can import the database module, use the Connect API to open a connection, and then create a cursor object to run queries and fetch results. Remember to close the database connection to free up resources. You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all