26-1-CISC7204-00__61552: Module 01 - Laptop Pricing Data Set Overview | UMMoodle Skip to main content Side panel UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource More 0 Notifications You have no notifications See all 0 There are 0 unread conversations mU Profile Grades Calendar Private files Reports Preferences Language Log out Language selector English Português 日本語 繁體中文 简体中文 UMMoodle Home Dashboard My courses Quick Links Collapse Expand UM Home ICTO Home eLearning Home ICTO Knowledge Base UMMoodle (Academic Year 2023/2024 or earlier) ePortfolio Portuguese Learning Office 365 ProPlus QuestionPro Turnitin Official Docs Collapse Expand Moodle Docs 4.5 Courses Grades Assignment Quiz Forum File resource URL resource Expand all Collapse all Open course index 26-1-CISC7204-00__61552 CISC7204 Assignment 01 - Pair (2 Pax) Work Due on 2026SEP20 Sunday 11:00 pm Module 01 - Laptop Pricing Data Set Overview Module 01 - Laptop Pricing Data Set Overview Completion requirements Overview: Laptop Pricing Data Set The dataset used for practice labs is a modified subset that maps the price of laptops with different attributes. The dataset is a filtered and modified version of the Laptop Price Prediction using specifications dataset, available under the Database Contents License (DbCL) v1.0 on the Kaggle website. Parameters The parameters used in the dataset are: 1. Manufacturer The company that manufactured the laptop 2. Category The category to which the laptop belongs: This parameter is mapped to numerical values in the following way: Category Assigned Value Gaming 1 Netbook 2 Notebook 3 Ultrabook 4 Workstation 5 3. GPU The manufacturer of the GPU. This parameter is mapped to numerical values in the following way: GPU Assigned Value AMD 1 Intel 2 NVidia 3 4. OS The operating system type (Windows or Linux): This parameter is mapped to numerical values in the following way: OS Assigned Value Windows 1 Linux 2 5. CPU_core The type of processor used in the laptop: This parameter is mapped to numerical values in the following way: CPU_core Assigned Value Intel Pentium i3 3 Intel Pentium i5 5 Intel Pentium i7 7 6. Screen_Size_cm The size of the laptop screen is recorded in cm. 7. CPU_frequency The frequency at which the CPU operates, in GHz. 8. RAM_GB The size of the RAM of the system in GB. 9. Storage_GB_SSD The size of the SSD storage in GB is installed in the laptop. 10. Weight_kg The weight of the laptop is in kgs. 11. Price The price of the laptop is in USD. Author(s) Abhishek Gagneja Vicky Kuo You are logged in as mc65308, UN CHI KIT ( Log out ) Get the mobile app Powered by Moodle Messaging Contacts Messages selected: 1 × Search people and messages Contacts 0 There are 0 pending contact requests Search people and messages Settings Contacts Requests 0 There are 0 pending contact requests No contacts No contact requests Contact request sent Personal space Save draft messages, links, notes etc. to access later. Delete for me and for everyone else Block Unblock Remove Add Delete Delete Send contact request Accept and add to contacts Decline OK Cancel Starred ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No starred conversations Group ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No group conversations Private ( ) total conversations There are unread conversations No private conversations Contacts Non-contacts Load more Messages Load more No results Search people and messages Privacy You can restrict who can message you Accept messages from: My contacts only My contacts and anyone in my courses Notification preferences General Use enter to send Delete selected messages Send contact request You have blocked this user. Unblock user You are unable to message this user See all